.TH marytts 1 February, 2015

.SH 
NAME
       marytts-server - launch MaryTTS server

.SH 
SYNOPSIS
       marytts-server [options] [-- [maryserver_properties]]

.SH 
DESCRIPTION
       This program is used to launch the MaryTTS server.

.SH 
OPTIONS
       \fB-h\fR, \fB-?\fR
            Show this help and exit.
       \fB-v\fR
            Enable verbose output.
       \fB-d\fR
            Run the server as a daemon.
       \fB-p\fR <\fIpidfile\fR>
            Store the server PID in <\fIpidfile\fR>.
            This option works only if \fB-d\fR is also used.
            If <\fIpidfile\fR> is present, and the associated process is
            still running, it will not start a new process and will
            exit with an error. It is possible to change this
            behaviour by using the \fB-k\fR option.
       \fB-k\fR
            This option makes sense only if \fB-p\fR is also used. By using
            this option the program will try to kill a running marytts
            before starting a new one.

.SH 
MARYTTS PROPERTIES
       It is possible to specify MaryTTS options using the syntax
       \fB-D<property_name>\fR=<\fIproperty_value\fR>.

       Useful properties include:

       \fB-Dsocket.port\fR=<\fIport_number\fR>
            Change the server port from 59125 to <\fIport_number\fR>
       \fB-Dlog.config\fR="<\fIlog4j_configuration_path\fR>"
            Configure log4j properties from <\fIlog4j_configuration_path\fR>
            file.
       \fB-Dlog4j.logger.marytts\fR="<\fIinfo_level\fR>,<\fIlog4j_appender\fR>"
            Change logger from default "DEBUG,logfile" to
            "<\fIinfo_level\fR>,<\fIlog4j_appender\fR>".
            Possible values for <\fIinfo_level\fR> include OFF, INFO and
            DEBUG.  Possible values for <\fIlog4j_appender\fR> include
            logfile and stderr.
